HARDWAREDESCRIPTI
 1.NODE MCU MICROCONTROLLER
 Node MCU ESP8266 
The MCU is a small computer and is composed of Metal Oxide-Semiconductor (MOS) 
integrated circuit chip. Contains a microprocessor and peripherals for input / output. It is 
widely used in embedded programs and other standard applications. In all automation and 
control system is installed with the help of microcontroller. It will easily change and size 
based on the cycle. Node MCU is an open-source firmware and development kit that helps 
you create a prototype or build an IoT product. Includes firmware running on ESP8266 Wi - 
Fi SoC from Espressif Systems, as well as module-based ESP-12 module. The firmware uses 
Lua scripting language. It is based on the eLua project, and is based on the Espressif Non-
OS SDK forESP8266.
Table No 1: Specifications and Features
Node MCU ESP8266 Tensilica 32-bit RISC CPU Xtensa
Microcontroller LX106
Active power supply 3.3V
Input Voltage 7-12V
Digital I / O (DIO)pins 16
Analog Input Anchors (ADC) 1
UART 1
SPIs 1
I2Cs 1
Flash Memory 4 MB
SRAM 64 KB
Clock speed 80 MHz
2.DHT11 Sensor
 DHT11 Sensor 
The sensor or device collects all the moisture associated with the air and sends the report to 
IoT data storage. Relative humidity to measure the difference between air and humidity. It helps to 
see the weather and the decision to take when it is raining or not. It is also used in automotive, 
HVACsystemsandmetrologicalsystems.Occasionally,aftertherains,theairmayfeelmoist.The 
waterseemstostandintheair.However,insomeACsyoupresscertainbuttonsandthewindblows. 
Moisture builds up in the air, leading to moisture. However, the moisture sensor in your AC picks 
it up and cleans it for you. Isn't that amazing? Let's see how he does this. Moisture sensor (or 
hygrometer)detects,measuresandreportsbothhumidityandairtemperature.Therelativehumidity in the 
air with the highest humidity at a certain temperature is called relative humidity. Relative 
humidity becomes an important factor when looking for comfort. Moisture sensors work by 
detecting changes that change the electric waves or airtemperature.
3.Rain sensor
4.moisture sensor
5.LCD Display
